# ReadmeFile: Creating a Hobby Page

## Overview

This project aims to create a hobby page using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. This hobby page showcases my allotment. The purpose of this project is to provide a basic understanding of the fundamentals of web development.

## Planning

Before starting the project, I decided what I wanted to include on the hobby page. 

- Heading: A title/heading with a date generated by JavaScript.
- Text Content: A few different sections with text; divs, articles and lists.
- Gallery: A photo gallery to display pictures using JavaScript.
- Contact Me: A way for visitors to get in contact.

## Building

1. Create an HTML file and add the necessary tags and elements.
2. Add content to the HTML file, including headings, paragraphs, and images.
3. Use CSS to style the hobby page, including fonts, colours, and layout.
4. Add JavaScript to the hobby page to add interactivity.

In order to display todays date at all times I needed to generate the date and then display it through DOM manipulation. 

First, I created a new date object that represents the current date and time. The `getDate()` method is used to get the day of the month (1-31) from the date object. The `getMonth()` method is used to get the month (0-11) from the date object. The `+1` is added to the result of `getMonth()` to get the correct month number (1-12). The `getFullYear()` method is used to get the year (4 digits) from the date object.

Second, I selected the HTML element with the id of `date` and changed the text content of that element to a string that includes the current date in the format of `dd/mm/yyyy`. The `querySelector()` method is used to select the HTML element with the id of `date`. The `innerHTML` property is used to set the text content of the selected element to a string that includes the current date.

Finally the date is positioned and styled with CSS.

I wanted to display some images in a stylish way and include a thumb bar so that the pictures wouldn't dominate the content of the page. The JavaScript to do this does sveral things. 

First, it selects three HTML elements with the classes of `displayed-img`, `thumb-bar`, and `caption`.

Second, it declares an array of image filenames and an object that contains the alternative text for each image file.

Third, it loops through the array of image filenames and creates a new img element for each image. It sets the `src` attribute of the img element to the path of the image file, the `alt` attribute to the alternative text for the image, and appends the `img` element to the `thumb-bar` element.

Fourth, it adds an event listener to each `img` element that changes the `src` attribute of the `displayed-img` element to the path of the clicked image, the `alt` attribute to the alternative text for the image, and the text content of the caption element to the alternative text for the image.

So, when you run this code, it will display a gallery of images with alternative text and a caption that changes when you click on an image.

I decided that I wanted the poem link to open in a new tab, but this can be disorienting for people who are navigating via screen reader. I added an `aria-label` and `title` to the link in order to convey what the link would do and to limit it's accessibility impact.

The text content on the page felt quite blocky, so I added some CSS to style the articles when hovering or clicking them. This was the first hurdle I faced in this project. I wanted to enlarge an article when hovering over it, and to reduce the size of the remaining article. However CSS can only target child and sibling elements, it cannot navigate upwards or backwards in the DOM. 

I wrote a simple function in JavaScript, `scaleArticles()`, that would add and remove CSS classes when hovering over an element.


## Debugging

After building it's essential to test and debug the page to ensure it functions correctly. Here are some steps I followed when debugging the hobby page:

   - Validate the HTML and CSS code using a validator tool.
   - Check for errors in the JavaScript code using the console log.
   - Test the hobby page on different browsers and devices to ensure it is responsive and       works correctly.
   - Get feedback from others to identify any issues with the hobby page.

I used the W3C validator, which picked up some unclosed tags and semantic errors, and other validators to check that the page conformed to WCAG 2.1 requirements. 

When viewing the page through smaller viewports I again noticed that the text felt quite dominating, so I used media queries to stop the articles from displaying as flexboxes. At first I was changing the JavaScript and adding `if` statements to make the `scaleArticles()` function only run above certain widths, then I realised I could use CSS media queries and change the properties of the `classList` I was adding. It would be interesting to find which is a more 'efficient' method, though I suspect that due to the low intensity of the page that performance changes would be negligible.

I had some friends look over the page to tell me what they thought. They noticed that at certain screen sized the `h1` was being cut off, so I changed its font size to use relative units and then set a maximum size so that it wouldn't grow indefinitely.








